Think back to a time when you felt truly respected
at work.
Why did you feel that way?
Was it that you felt heard, valued,
and honored as an individual?
Were you encouraged to be yourself?
Respect is something that we all want and deserve
and it's an essential component
of a healthy, productive work environment.
To create that space, let's explore what respect means,
why it's necessary, and how to cultivate it.
Respect means treating others with dignity and fairness;
however, what that looks like can depend
on who's asking and being asked.
That's because no two people are the same.
Showing respect requires looking outside yourself,
recognizing the needs and values of others,
and treating people how they want to be treated.
A person's perceptions, background,
and feelings will influence how they define respect,
and so the more diverse your workplace,
the more likely you are to see varied interpretations
of what is and isn't respectful.
Regardless of who's interpreting, however,
a respectful workplace celebrates that diversity
and operates with high ethical standards.
Let's examine why that matters by looking more closely
at some of the benefits of a respectful workplace.
First, a respectful work environment
inspires healthy communication.
Employees can share their ideas freely
and stay open to the views of others.
Second, since it breeds acceptance
and understanding, a respectful workplace leads
to stronger relationships.
Employees who feel respected
also experience reduced stress.
They can feel free to be themselves
without fear of judgment or ridicule.
A respectful workplace can result
in heightened engagement and productivity as well.
Employees are more likely to feel a sense of belonging.
Finally, respect increases job satisfaction.
An atmosphere of respect can inspire confidence,
lift spirits, and encourage everyone to do their best work.
Creating an inclusive and respectful workplace doesn't
just have positive benefits
such as higher performance and better team morale.
It can also reduce the likelihood of negative outcomes
like legal and public relations problems.
So how do we build this space?
Let's take a look.
Building a respectful workplace takes calculated effort,
strong communication, and consistent determination.
It starts with reading and following your company policies.
These should promote equal employment, anti harassment,
anti-discrimination, anti-retaliation,
and a code of ethics and conduct.
Everyone should understand what behavior is unacceptable,
how to report incidents,
and what happens when people violate the rules.
Second, all employees must model the appropriate behavior.
All employees need to stay open
to diverse perspectives, avoid exclusionary behaviors,
and treat others with dignity and fairness.
Senior managers and team leads have a special responsibility
to set a positive example.
Leaders must be on the front line of any effort
to build a respectful workplace.
A disrespectful leader can't expect their team
to act any differently.
Next, all employees should attend regular training
that focuses on preventing harassment
and discrimination and promoting respect in the workplace.
Finally, employees at all levels need to be open
to giving and receiving feedback.
You can give feedback by addressing disrespectful behavior
whether it's happening to you or others,
and you can receive feedback by listening to others
and respecting their boundaries.
If you're a manager,
that also means giving your team regular opportunities
to share their issues
or concerns both anonymously and in person.
Building a respectful workplace doesn't happen overnight.
It requires continuous monitoring,
reevaluation, and training.
Start by familiarizing yourself
with your company policies and the relevant law.
Then, commit to upholding those policies,
setting a positive example and attending regular training.
Finally, stay open to giving and receiving feedback.
When you take the time to follow those steps,
you'll lay the groundwork
for creating a respectful workplace for everyone.